Blog post for Istio 2024-25 Steering Committee (#14606)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2024/steering-results/index.md

---
title: "Istio's Steering Committee for 2024"
description: Announcing the newest members and a proposed change to election timing.
publishdate: 2024-02-15
attribution: "Craig Box, for the Istio Steering Committee"
keywords: [istio,steering,governance,community,election]
---

The Istio Steering Committee oversees the administrative aspects of the project, including governance, branding, marketing, and working with the CNCF.

Every year, the leaders in the Istio project [estimate the proportion](https://github.com/istio/community/blob/master/steering/CONTRIBUTION-FORMULA.md) of the [hundreds of companies that have contributed to Istio in the past year](https://istio.devstats.cncf.io/d/5/companies-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=Last%20year&var-metric=contributions), and uses that metric to proportionally allocate nine Contribution Seats on our Steering Committee.

> Then, four Community Seats are voted for by our project members, with candidates being from companies that did not receive Contribution Seats.

Reviewer: Do we want to add that these 4 seats are 4 different companies?

Author: Maybe - that's always true by design, as you can only hold one Community Seat per company.

        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Google</td>
            <td>3</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Solo.io</td>
            <td>2</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>IBM/Red Hat</td>
            <td>2</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>DaoCloud</td>
            <td>1</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Huawei</td>
            <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
{{< /centered_block >}}

The full allocation can be seen in our [formula spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OIwf11xdL3VHi18uhOnHMwQnlXBS22vvhL0m1qraIds/edit#gid=1365082320).

## Community seats

As a result of this year's calculation, two of our Community Seat holders move to Contribution Seats. This creates two extra vacancies, which are allocated to the runners-up of our last election[^daocloud].

We are pleased to welcome our two newest Community Seat holders, Mitch Connors from Aviatrix and Keith Mattix from Microsoft. Both are highly active maintainers and leaders in the project, and we are delighted to have them join the Steering Committee.

## Proposed changes to election timing

> Our charter currently allocates Contribution Seats in February and holds the Community Seat election in July. We previously [anticipated a situation](https://github.com/istio/community/pull/609#issuecomment-877302152) where people would change seat type mid-term, and this has now come to pass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our charter currently allocates Contribution Seats in February and holds the Community Seat election in July. We previously [anticipated a situation](https://github.com/istio/community/pull/609#issuecomment-877302152) where people would change seat types mid-term, and this has now come to pass.
```

> We will therefore be voting on a change to our Charter which will move our Community Seat elections to February, to be held immediately after the allocation of Community Seats. It is our intention that the next annual election be held in February 2025.

Reviewer 2: This should say "to be held immediately after the allocation of _**Contribution**_ Seats" (emphasis mine)

Author: Good catch, i put these in occasionally to see if anyone is reading closely 😁

## The full group

> Following these changes, we have now have representation from nine companies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following these changes, we now have representation from nine companies:
```

Craig Box | Solo.io | [craigbox](https://github.com/craigbox) | Contribution seat
Rob Cernich | Red Hat | [rcernich](https://github.com/rcernich) | Contribution seat
Mitch Connors | Aviatrix | [therealmitchconnors](https://github.com/therealmitchconnors) | Community seat
Iris (Shaojun) Ding | Intel | [irisdingbj](https://github.com/irisdingbj) | Community seat
Cameron Etezadi | Google | [cetezadi](https://github.com/cetezadi) | Contribution seat
John Howard | Google | [howardjohn](https://github.com/howardjohn) | Contribution seat
Faseela K | Ericsson Software Technology | [kfaseela](https://github.com/kfaseela) | Community seat
Kebe Liu | DaoCloud | [kebe7jun](https://github.com/kebe7jun) | Contribution seat
Keith Mattix | Microsoft | [keithmattix](https://github.com/keithmattix) | Community seat
Justin Pettit | Google | [justinpettit](https://github.com/justinpettit) | Contribution seat
Lin Sun | Solo.io | [linsun](https://github.com/linsun) | Contribution seat
Zhonghu Xu | Huawei | [hzxuzhonghu](https://github.com/hzxuzhonghu) | Contribution seat

Our sincerest thanks to Ameer Abbas, April Kyle Nassi, Cale Rath and Chaomeng Zhang, whose terms have come to an end.

> The Steering Committee wishes to thank its members, old and new, and looks forward to working with them to continue to grow and improve Istio as a successful and sustainable open source project. We encourage everyone to get involved in the Istio community, contribute, vote, and help us shape the future of cloud native networking.

Reviewer: Working with them seems weird to me. Maybe:
```suggestion
The Steering Committee wishes to thank its members, old and new, and looks forward to continue to grow and improve Istio as a successful and sustainable open source project. We encourage everyone to get involved in the Istio community, by contributing, voting, and helping us shape the future of cloud native networking.
```
